# Data Analysis of Engines' Lifespan and Distribution
Case study on the lifespan and distribution of diesel and gasoline engines.

The main purpose of this project is to prove that the lifespan of diesel engines is significantly shorter than that of gasoline engines, as well as to explore different scenarios regarding their distribution. The provided data files in the repository contain information regarding multiple parts comprising diesel and gasoline engines. Some of the characteristics would be the day on which they were manufactured and to which diesel/gasoline engine they belong, among others. Having said that, a methodology had to be established in order to declare an engine disposable and thus compare the lifespand thereof, as well as to make some conclusions regarding the mentioned distribution scenarios. In summary, this was done by manipulating the numerous provided data sets into a final data set that would have as obeservations all the individual analyzed diesel and gasoline engines with all their corresponding parts and subsequently all the characteristics thereof. Once established this final data set, a separate analyis of the diesel and gasoline engines was performed to then be compared and finally reach a conclusion on their lifespan and distribution scenarios. This was done by extracting, transforming and loading data, as well as selecting relevant features to then apply appropriate statistical methods on them to then present and visualise the results in an interactive way via a Shiny App. 

*Given that the files containing the raw data are so large, please unzip locally the individual folders Geodaten, Logistikverzug and Zullasungen and bring them together into a folder called Data for the R code to work. Furthermore, feel free to contact me to receive the folders Einzelteil, Fahrzeug and Komponente in case you want to reproduce the case study. Unfortunately, it is not possible to upload the latter files even as compressed files as they contain exceptionally numerous GBs of data*

_This project was completed by a group of contributors and thus all of them deserve credit for the results thereof. The contributors are Brayan Orjuela, Chen Xue, Tobias Königer, Xin Zhou and Yue Zhang._
